Jayshree Sarathy
jayshree.sarathy@yale.edu


Part I:

1. 
In words that end with -ly, doesn't separate L IY as the last syllable
	eg. Harshly is parsed as HHAAR + SHLIY instead of HHAARSH + LIY
In many words, S is incorrectly grouped in the onset instead of coda of previous syllable
   	eg. Misfile is parsed as MIH + SFAYL instead of MIHS + FAYL

2. 
These errors happen probably because the syllabification process given is simplified. There are
several exceptions to the rules. For example, often when S is followed by a consonant and
preceded by a vowel, it joins the coda of the previous syllable. Similarly, if LIY appears 
at the end of the word, it is likely to be its own syllable. Of course, these further observations
are sure to have several exceptions of their own.

3.
The syllabification process could attempt to generalize for some of the more common exceptions,
such as the ones listed above.

4. EXTRA CREDIT
I added two tests: if the syllable "S" was preceded by a vowel or K and followed by a consonant, 
I added the "+" sign after "S". If "L IY" appeared at the end of a word, excluding words
that ended with "B L IY" and "T L IY", I preceded "L" with a "+".


Part II:

1.
Children attempt simple syllable types first. In both Charlotte's and Georgia's 13 month files, for example,
they attempted CV, CVC, and V. Georgia being slightly more advanced also attempted CCVC. In the later files,
they attempted a much wider and more complicated range of syllable types. For example, Charlotte attempted syllables
as complicated as CCCVC, CVCC, and CCCV while Georgia attempted CCVCC and CCVC.

2.
Children initially actually say the syllables V and CV, as well as CVC. For example, when Charlotte was 13 months
she said CV 50.52% of the time, V 48.45% of the time, and CVC only 1.03%. Similarly, Georgia at 13 months said CV 71.88% 
of the time, V 25% of the time, and CVC only 3.12%. In the later files, their repertoires of syllable types increased from 3 
to 10 and 9 respectively. While they both still said CV the most out of all the syllables (49.23% and 47.44%), they also
managed to say other syllable types quite frequently such as CVC (25.82% and 28.33%) and more marked ones such as
CVCCC (0.66% and 0.34%) less frequently.

3.
In general, it seems that simpler syllable types are overrepresented and more marked types are underrepresented.
For example, when comparing Georgia's 43 month target and actual files, the syllable type CCVCC is totally underrepresented
in her pronunciation, for the target file shows it as appearing .53% of the time, but she never says it in the actual file. 
Also, the syllable types CV (47.44%, 41.39%) and VC (9.73%, 7.99%) are overrepresented in her pronunciation and the syllable 
type VCC (0.34%, 2.49%) is underrepresented.
Comparing Charlotte's 35 month target and actual files, we see similar results. Again CCVCC is nowhere to be 
found in the actual file, while the type CV is overrepresented. In Charlotte's files, CCV, CCVC, and VCC are also
significantly underrepresented.

4.
Through this data, we can generalize that children acquire simple syllables first, then move on to more marked syllables.
Specifically, they seem to attempt and obtain CV, V, and CVC quite early on. Later, they grasp syllables such as CVC, and 
then attempt (sometimes unsuccessfully) more complicated ones such as CVCCC and CCVCC.

5.
My generalizations are consistent with the Implication Universals. For example, CV seems to be better acquired early on than
V (according to their relative proportions in Georgia's 13 month file for example: 71.88% vs 25%), and V is acquired before VC.
Although the Implication Universals give solid guidelines for acquisition, the actual language acquisition by children seems to be 
more fluid. For example, even though CVC and CCV are both more marked than CV, children seem to acquire CVC much sooner than CCV,
and CCV is underrepresented even in the later files(.76% vs 1.17%).